= Open Solo Firmware =

There are numerous firmware files and packages for the different components of the Solo.

== Open Solo IMX Firmware ==

The full Open Solo IMX companion computer Linux file system packages are installed on the Copter and Controller's IMX companion computers. These packages also contain all the other firmware, such as ArduCopter and the controller's STM32. These packages are complete updates, and are about 75mb each.  Developers can build custom versions of the IMX firmware using the [[Solo Builder]].

''If you wish to upgrade to Open Solo, this is where you need to read! The current stable version is Open Solo 3.0.0.''

There are several ways to install this Open Solo firmware:
* [[Install via Solex App]] or [[Install via SidePilot App]] for a completely automated update
* [[Install via SSH]] if you love your keyboard and SSH terminals
* [[SD Card Image]] installation requires disassembly. This is usually only for major problem recovery

== Artoo STM32 Firmware ==

The controller's STM32 hardware controls the sticks, buttons, display, battery, haptic, and lights.  It is a separate piece of hardware in the controller from the IMX, which has its own firmware.  ''This firmware is included in the IMX Firmware package''.  So you would only be using this separate firmware loading process if you're making changes specific to it.  

More detail and installation instructions are available on the [[Artoo STM32]] page.

== ArduCopter Firmware ==

The Solo contains, among many things, a Cube 2.0 flight controller. The Cube runs the open source ArduCopter firmware from the ArduPilot project.  The Cube and ArduCopter are what actually flies your copter. (The IMX Linux computer provides input, telemetry, ground connection, smart shots, etc).

More detail and installation instructions are available on the [[ArduCopter Firmware]] page
