'''WELCOME TO OPEN SOLO'''

== Announcements ==
'''''NEW: CONSOLIDATED REPOSITORY IS HERE'''''
Many of the separate github repositories for the various aspects of Open Solo have been consolidated into one central repo, which is where you are now.  Anything that wasn't a fork of another repo has been converted to a sub-directory of this repo.  This includes sololink, shotmanager, solo-builder, artoo, sololink-python, stm32loader, meta-3dr, and yocto base.  Conveniently, these are the repos that see the most ongoing development.  As such, it will be much easier to manage that work in one place. Releases, tags, and branches will have some logic and consistency. The commit history from the old separate repos has been retained and all show up here still, so history is not lost or forgotten.

Mavproxy and mavlink-solo remain separate repos, included here as submodules. These are forks from ArduPilot, and shall remain in their repos for that reason.  Ultimately, it would be great to just use the master ArduPilot repos, but the Solo's firmware is too old.  So these forks are circa 2016.  The imx6-linux and imx6-uboot are also still in their own repos. They are forks, and have tens of thousands of commits each. They also are untouched since 2016, and will probably remain so.

ArduPilot-solo is the repo for the old stock ArduCopter firmware from 3DR.  It is a fork from ArduPilot, stale since 2016 other than one commit for Open Solo 3.  This will as such be remaining its own repo, included here as a submodule for reference.  Once ArduCopter 3.7 stable is released, this repo will be obsolete and deprecated.
----

== Install Open Solo! ==
The team working on safe, reliable releases of Open Solo publishes them here. You can read all the details in the release notes, and link directly to installation instructions. These are the "official" instructions. These instructions supersede any other older instructions, videos, and wikis that came before Open Solo.

'''Go to the [[Install Open Solo]] page to begin.'''

----

== ArduCopter 3.7-dev Beta Testing ==
[https://github.com/OpenSolo/documentation/blob/master/copter37.md Release notes and instructions] as of December 8, 2018 for beta testing ArduCopter 3.7-dev on the Solo.  You must already be on Open Solo to do this.  This is a major beta testing project.  It is highly recommended that you visit the [https://www.facebook.com/groups/617648671719759 Solo Beta Test Group on Facebook].
----

== Support, Social Media, and other useful links ==
* [https://www.facebook.com/groups/617648671719759 Solo Beta Test] group on Facebook (primary Open Solo and Green Cube support group!!)
* [https://www.facebook.com/groups/3DRSOLOModClub Solo Mod Club] group on Facebook
* [https://www.facebook.com/groups/176789056089526 Solex Users] group on Facebook
* [http://www.solexapp.com Solex App] official website. This app is truely the future of Solo's user interface!
* [https://www.facebook.com/sidepilotapp SidePilot Community] group on Facebook
* [http://jestersdrones.org/store/l Jester's Drones] for the Green Cube and other cool gear
* [http://ardupilot.org ArduPilot] homepage
* [http://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/parameters.html ArduCopter Full Parameter List] details all 800 something parameters in ArduCopter.
* [http://ardupilot.org/copter/docs/introduction.html ArduCopter introduction]: Learn what you're getting yourself into :)
* [http://ardupilot.org/planner/docs/common-install-mission-planner.html Mission Planner] ground station app for Windows
* [https://filezilla-project.org/download.php?type=client Filezilla] for moving files to/from the companion computer
* [https://winscp.net/eng/download.php WinSCP] for moving files to/from the companion computer
----

== Tech and Contributors ==
If you're the geeky type that wants to read all the commits to see what has been changed in Open Solo, they can all be found in the Open Solo github repositories.

* '''The Build System''' compiles all the code from all the repositories into functioning binaries to be loaded onto the Solo and Controller. This was a HUGE lift to make work outside of 3DR's environment. David Buzz (@davidbuzz) was the brains behind the move of ''everything'' from 3DR, setup of new repos and servers, build system engineering, and a new AWS based auto-build system. The AWS system can compile from scratch in 1hr, whereas a home PC takes up to 5hrs.
* '''The Flight Code''' has numerous components that got fixes and new features. Matt Lawrence (@Pedals2Paddles) worked most of these changes.  Other contributors to the code were Tim (@FLYBYME), Morten Enholm (@Spawn32), and Hugh Eaves (@hugheaves),
** '''Sololink''' is mostly behind the scenes stuff related to booting, networking connections, firmware loading, etc. This compiles into a version for both the Copter and Controller's IMX companion computers.
** '''Shotmanager''' is all the smart shots, button and control handling, camera stuff, and most other user facing operational stuff. This compiles primarily into the Copter's IMX companion computer.
** '''Artoo''' is the controller's STM32 firmware for the screen, buttons, and sticks.
** '''Mavlink-solo''' is a rather old fork of Mavlink. The flight modes were brought up to current enumerations.
** '''Sololink-python''' is some misc helper python files.
** '''ArduPilot-solo''' is 3DR's fork of ArduCopter used on the stock Solo pixhawk 2.0 cube.
----

== For Developers ==

'''''Not for general users that just want to put Open Solo releases on their solo!!!'''''

* Visit the [[Vagrant VM]] page for first time installation and initialization of the Vagrant VM.
* Visit [[Solo Builder]] for steps to build the complete copter and controller firmware.
* Visit [[Artoo STM32]] for steps to build just the Artoo STM32 firmware
----

== How to get involved ==
This documentation is pretty empty right now.  If you know how Solo or Artoo works (or don't know!) and want to get involved pull requests are welcome on this documentation and all of the sub projects. Most of the developers are hanging out on [https://gitter.im/ArduPilot/OpenSolo gitter] and the social media groups listed above.

----

== Special Mentions! ==
All of this would not be possible without 3DR.  They very generously open sourced most of their internal code and build tools to make this possible. You can see the official  [https://3dr.com/blog/announcing-opensolo 3DR release statement here] and the [https://discuss.ardupilot.org/t/opensolo-initiative-by-the-ardupilot-team ArduPilot Team's statement here]. Special thanks to Buzz and Peter for making this happen, and everyone else who has contributed to make solo even better.
