== Detailed Open Solo 4 Install Using The Solex App ==
''Note: If you are doing a brand new green cube install, please be sure to start off with the [[[New Green Cube Instructions]]]. This warning does not apply to stock solos and existing green cube solos.''

'''Please read all the instructions carefully prior to beginning. Skipping steps or doing things out of order will generally result in failure that is difficult to diagnose and repair.'''

'''''These instructions are for Solex version 1.8.6 or higher versions.  Please ensure your mobile device has the latest version of Solex installed via the Google Play Store.'''''

# '''Download packages:''' If you haven't recently downloaded the latest files, you will need to do this first.
#* First connect your mobile device to the Solo's WiFi and open Solex.  Allow Solex to connect to the Solo and download parameters.
#* Make sure you have ''Advanced Mode'' checked in the Solex application settings menu, or you will not see the firmware updates menu.
#* Switch your mobile device WiFi over to your home WiFi as you will need high speed internet to download the packages
#* With your device connected to the internet, go into the Solex ''Firmware Updates'' menu.
#* Press the ''clean up'' button, then the ''refresh'' button to make sure you're seeing the latest files.
#* Download the ''Open Solo 4-dev Clean Install'' packages (solo and controller) by tapping the packages. ''Available'' will change to ''downloaded'' once complete. The installation packages are ~75MB each, so it will take a little longer to download than you may be used to.
#* If you have the HERE GPS or retractable landing gear mods, also download those parameter packages.
#* You do ''not'' need any ArduCopter parameter package or the ArduCopter firmware package for this process.

# '''Reconnect:''' Once you've downloaded both, reconnect your mobile device to the Solo WiFi and make sure Solex says connected to vehicle. Again, your solo and controller must be fully charged, powered on, paired, connected, and not malfunctioning. You may need to press the connect button in Solex to force it to reconnect.

# '''Install Copter Package:''' From the firmware updates menu in Solex, tap one of the ''Open Solo 4-dev Clean Install (Copter)'' package that you previously downloaded.
#* Press install. Press install again when prompted again to confirm. ''This is your last chance to change your mind''.
#* Again, be patient while numerous large files are extracted and scripts execute. Do not push buttons, exit the app, mess with the Solo, etc. Let it do its thing. Until it says it has completed.
#* The solo will click and lights will go disco.  At this time, ArduCopter 3.7-dev firmware is being pre-installed on the Cube. This step takes about 1 minute and Solex will tell you when the whole process is complete.
#* ''Stock cube users upgrading from the old firmware:'' you will not get any happy tones to indicate firmware loading completed, and the lights will stay disco. This is not a problem, and this is why we're pre-loading the firmware now.  
#* '''DO NOT REBOOT THE COPTER YET!''' You must do the install for both the copter and controller before rebooting anything. Once Solex tells you the install is complete, leave the copter and move on to the controller install.
# '''Install Controller Package:''' From the firmware updates menu in Solex, tap one of the ''Open Solo 4-dev Clean Install (Controller)'' package that you previously downloaded.
#* Press install. Press install again when prompted again to confirm. ''This is your last chance to change your mind''.
#* Again, be patient while numerous large files are extracted and scripts execute. Do not push buttons, exit the app, mess with the Solo, etc. Let it do its thing. Until it says it has completed.
#* Solex will tell you when the whole process is complete.
# '''Reboot:''' Power cycle the Solo and controller once the Solex installation packages have both completed successfully. When they power back on, they will automatically begin installations.
#* *Unlike in Open Solo 3, the recovery partition will not be updated to Open Solo 4 during the install process. Updating the recovery partition will be done later very easily. You will likely hear the cube reboot and flash its lights twice (firmware install and parameter reset). You will see the controller reboot and say update success once.
#* It is difficult to know exactly what stage it is at since it can't speak and isn't telepathic. The process takes about 6 minutes on both the solo and the controller.  So just wait about 6 minutes.
# '''Pair:''' Hit the pair button under the Solo with a small pointy poking apparatus like a paper clip for 2 seconds to get the controller and solo re-paired. When the controller tells you it has detected the solo, hold the A and B button for 3 seconds... which is the second set of vibrations... until the the screen says pairing in progress.  If they are not pairing, they may have timed out.  Reboot both and try again.
# '''Reconnect mobile device:''' You will need to reconnect your mobile device to Solo's WiFi now. Since it was not factory reset, the WiFi name and password are unchanged.
# '''Load applicable parameter packages:''' If you have a HERE GPS/Compass or a retractable landing gear mod, you will need to install some applicable parameter packages now.  If you have none of these modifications, you can skip this step.
#* Tap each package in the Solex Firmware Updates menu to install the parameters. You do not need to reboot in between
#* If you have the HERE gps/compass, load the ''HERE Compass Parameters'' package.
#* If you have the landing gear mod, load the ''Landing Gear Parameters'' package.
#* You do ''not'' need to load the ArduCopter parameters or ArduCopter firmware packages!!!
#* Reboot the solo after loading all the applicable parameter packages.
# In the Solex vehicle settings menu, you can verify everything installed by scrolling to the bottom and looking at the listed version information. Controller and Vehicle should say XXXXX.  Controller FW should say Open Solo XXXX.  And autopilot FW should say XXXX..
# '''Update Factory Reset Partition:''' In the Solex FW Updates menu, there is a copter and controller package called ''Update Factory Reset Partition''.  Run each one to update your factory reset (recovery) partitions.  This will allow the Solo automatically reset back to a clean Open Solo 4-dev if you ever do a factory reset.

=== Installation Complete! ===
Proceed to the [[Post Install Instructions]].
